# Warmup exercises | 3-21-19

## Some practice exercises with for loops.

Open up Atom and create a new file with the .py extension. You can write your solutions to these exercises here.

1. In Scrabble, different letters are worth different numbers of points. Can you write a function that takes in a word and returns its scrabble score? 

This dictionary contains the number of points each letter is worth: 
```
SCORES = {"a": 1, "c": 3, "b": 3, "e": 1, "d": 2, "g": 2, "f": 4, "i": 1, "h": 4, "k": 5, "j": 8, "m": 3, "l": 1, "o": 1, "n": 1, "q": 10, "p": 3, "s": 1, "r": 1, "u": 1, "t": 1, "w": 4, "v": 4, "y": 4, "x": 8, "z": 10}```

For example, the word `ocean` would be worth 1 + 3 + 1 + 1 + 1 = 7 points.


2. Nested for loops allow us to keep track of two or more changing variables in a for loop. 

For example, 
```
for i in range(0,10):
  for j in range(0, 5):
    print(i + j)
```

is a nested for loop that allows us to loop through the values 0 to 10 and 0 through 5 and add them together. Every time we step through a value in the outer loop, every value in the inner loop is looped through. Can you guess how many loops we ultimately go through (i.e. how many printed out values there will be?)

On a piece of paper, try to diagram the output of this nested loop statement. 
Each time we "step" through the loop, how do the values of i and j change? What values get printed?

You can check your answers with [this website](http://pythontutor.com/composingprograms.html#mode=edit) and also run the code in Atom. 

3. Can you write a nested for loop that prints out all the possible multiples of the numbers 1 through 8 and the numbers 12 through 20? (i.e, it should print out the results of 1\*12, 1\*13, ..., 2\*12, 2\*13, ... 2*20, ...)

4. Challenge: Write a nested for loop that prints out the multiplication tables for the numbers 1 through 4.
i.e.,
```
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20
3 6 9 12 15 18 21 24 27 30
4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32 26 40
```

You may want to look up the documentation for the `end` argument in print, i.e. print('hello world', end = ' ') for formatting. See more:
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/27312273/python-meaning-of-end-in-the-statement-print-t-end/27312325
and 
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/gfact-50-python-end-parameter-in-print/

 